What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

In a normal diretory history of files and commits are not recorded. to convert it to a git repository we need to move into that directory first. then type "git init" and press enter . this will intitalize the repository and create the hidden .git folder where the history and the metadata are recorded. 
Initializing a repository doesn't create the first commit. and has untracked files. this can be seen by entering git status. 

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Staging area shows the files that are connected to git and are being tracked. If we commit, files in the staging area get saved. Working directory is the directory we are working on and it might have many files that we are not tracking and hence they are not part of the reposittory. 

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

For each logicacl change I would add the connected files to the staging area and commit. and for next logical ones I would add the net set of relevant files to commit the next logical change.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

When branching out an application into two slightly different applications.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
 As in the videos show, it is quite a good way to track the changes. But WTF! It does not show up in  my screen. IDK WHY! Nah it worked. I mistanly creted the coins first.

 What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
 It adds branches in to one branch that is checked out.

 What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

 Automatically merging saves a lot of time. But two branches have too many differences there would be conflict. So in those cases manual process needs to be taken for conflicts. But I still prefer auto merging first and then checking out the conflicts and resolving them manually.